00:00   

My number one challenge would be: lack of access to the latest scientific discoveries. As a student from a developing country, I didn't get access to most of the big subscription journals, and I felt kind of trapped because I wanted to learn and didn't have the means to do it.

00:18   

This is when open access to research and science in general became the focus of my career. The scholarly communication system is sadly broken. There is lack of communication between different areas of science and between authors and researchers as well.

00:34   

We lack contact information for authors, since most of the emails listed in journals are outdated, so when you try to reach an author, you end up in a dead end because journals are also not willing to give you this information, so you cannot access or ask them for their information directly.

00:55   

Sometimes, we also come across research which is so old that authors and co-authors who wrote the paper already passed away, and then the paper ends up locked forever behind a paywall from a publisher who won't ever open them. 

01:10   

And these are just some of the challenges the scholarly communication system faces but there are way many more than them, and I think the only way to break these barriers is to fight, again, all these issues by using education as a tool that shows people the importance of opening science.

01:34   

We need to change the mentality of the world, since the rules of the scholarly system are outdated and honestly, a little ridiculous as well. We need to let people know without sharing there is no progress.

01:47   

And this is why my number one innovation is: open collaboration tools. I think that open tools are really important. They are an answer to all of these issues, because they let people perform collaborative research and break the geographical barriers that used to separate scientists in the past. 

02:10 

These tools come from social media, to open science notebooks, to Github, and open labs. All of them incentivize collaboration and promote the development of new ideas, making time zones and being far away from each other not as relevant anymore. And this is why I think that we need to focus on creating and on maintaining these open collaboration tools so that we can see how they improve the numbers and give everyone access to knowledge and to collaborate in this area.
