My two questions to you, first is "What, in your opinion, is the most pressing issue in science right now, as a process, a research process."

00:10 It is a little difficult to focus but if I had to pick just one thing I would say that reproducibility issues: the ability to make sure that what knowledge, or knowledge quote-unquote, we are generating is accurate and reliable and we can use it to take the next step. 

00:28 It is not something that is new, necessarily, because it has been inherent to the scientific process since the start of the scientific method, but somehow it fell out of the radar screen for a lot of time because people were under pressure to just generate the next new, novel finding, and then moving to the next one rather than making sure that what they found and reported was accurate and reliable and one could build on.

01:01 So, the fact that we have seen so much irreproducibility in many different fields means that maybe we should go back and recheck some of the calculations.

01:10 Great! Okay, and my second question for you, then, is "What is most exciting to you in scientific research now. Any sort of innovative new ideas or approaches to issues in science?"

01:22 Again, it is a very difficult choice, but, if I had to pick one I would say the advent of more rigorous methods and of team science and of sharing culture. This is something that is being facilitated by advances in technology and by new ideas that have come forth, new capabilities in computing power and storage and sharing and communication. I think it's without precedent to have roughly 20 million scientists working in science at the moment, compared to a handful during the Renaissance, for example. So we do have the potential of a new a much more exciting Renaissance in science nowadays that we just have to utilize all these possibilities that are available.