00:00And obviously influenced by my line of work, I believe the number one issue facing science today is the adoption of open data policies, practices, and licenses, by researchers across the scientific community. I think that as scientific research becomes increasingly data intensive, it's important for researchers to follow the fair data principles outlined by the Force 11 community to make data findable, accessible, interoperable, and of course, reusable.

00:28 Open data naturally is related to my choice for what I think is the most exciting innovation in science today. CRISPR, or the CRISPR/Cas9 method.

00:39 CRISPR/Cas9 is a genome editing tool that enables geneticists and medical researchers to edit parts of the genome by removing, adding or altering sections of the DNA sequence. Clustered, regularly interspaced short palindromic repeats, or CRISPR, are segments of prokaryotic DNA containing short, repetitive base sequences.  

01:01 Cas9 is an enzyme that acts as a pair of molecular scissors that can cut the two strands of DNA at a specific location in the genome, so that bits of DNA can then be added or removed.  

01:15 Needless to say the potential of this technology could be unparalleled in it's ability to treat genetic diseases, such as cancer or Alzheimer's disease.   

01:24 So, of course, in keeping with the spirit of open data and discovery, Dr Michael Boutros and his team at the German Cancer Research Centre in Heidelberg recently created the genome CRISPR. This is a database of open experimental data.

01:36 The data can be searched by gene name or genomic region, and Dr Boutros and his team are encouraging researchers to submit their own findings using the CRISPR-Cas9 method.